README.md, before:

## Massren [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/laurent22/massren.png)](https://travis-ci.org/laurent22/massren)

Massren is a command line tool that can be used to rename multiple files using your own text editor. Multiple-rename tools are usually difficult to use from the command line since any regular expression needs to be escaped, and each tool uses its own syntax and flavor of regex. The advantage of massren is that you are using the text editor you use every day, and so can use all its features.

The tool works by creating a file that contains the filenames of the target directory, and opening this file in the text editor. You can then modify the filenames there directly. Once done, save the text file and the files will be renamed. Lines that are not changed will simply be ignored.

![Massren usage animation](https://raw.github.com/laurent22/massren/animation/animation.gif "Massren usage animation")

## Features

- Rename multiple files using your own text editor. It should work with any text editor, including vim, emacs, Sublime Text or notepad.

- Undo - any rename operation can be undone.

- Move files to sub-directories. By adding a directory before a filename, the file is going to be moved to this directory.

- Dry run mode - test the results of a rename operation without actually renaming any file.

- Cross-platform - Windows, OSX and Linux are supported.

- Safety checks - since this is a multiple rename tool, various checks are in place to ensure that nothing gets accidentally renamed. For example, the program will check that the files are not being changed by something else while the list of filenames is being edited. If the number of files before and after saving the file is different, the operation will also be cancelled.

## Installation

The latest executables for each platform are available from the [release page](https://github.com/laurent22/massren/releases). An installation script is also available:

### OSX

#### Homebrew

	brew tap laurent22/massren
	brew install massren

#### With the install script

	curl -O https://raw.github.com/laurent22/massren/master/install/install.osx.sh
	sudo bash install.osx.sh
	
If the installation fails, please follow the [instructions below](#building-from-source).

### Linux

#### Manually

- [Install Go](https://golang.org/doc/install#tarball)
- Run `go get -u github.com/laurent22/massren`
- Run `go install github.com/laurent22/massren`

By default, the tool will be installed in `$GOPATH/bin/massren`. From there, you can either symlink it to `/bin` or add `$GOPATH/bin` to your `PATH` variable with `export PATH=$PATH:$GOPATH/bin`.

#### With the install script

	curl -O https://raw.github.com/laurent22/massren/master/install/install.linux-amd64.sh
	sudo bash install.linux-amd64.sh

### Windows

The executable can be downloaded from https://github.com/laurent22/massren/releases

## Usage and examples

	Usage:
	  massren [OPTIONS]

	Application Options:
	  -n, --dry-run  Don't rename anything but show the operation that would have
	                 been performed.
	  -v, --verbose  Enable verbose output.
	  -c, --config   Set or list configuration values. For more info, type:
	                 massren --config --help
	  -u, --undo     Undo a rename operation. Currently delete operations cannot be
	                 undone (though files can be recovered from the trash in OSX
	                 and Windows). eg. massren --undo [path]
	  -V, --version  Displays version information.

	Help Options:
	  -h, --help     Show this help message

	Examples:

	  Process all the files in the current directory:
	  % massren

	  Process all the JPEGs in the specified directory:
	  % massren /path/to/photos/*.jpg

	  Undo the changes done by the previous operation:
	  % massren --undo /path/to/photos/*.jpg

	  Set VIM as the default text editor:
	  % massren --config editor vim

	  List config values:
	  % massren --config

## Configuration

Type `massren --help --config` (or `massren -ch`) to view the possible configuration values and defaults:

	Config commands:

	  Set a value:
	  % massren --config <name> <value>

	  List all the values:
	  % massren --config

	  Delete a value:
	  % massren --config <name>

	Possible key/values:

	  editor:              The editor to use when editing the list of files.
	                       Default: auto-detected.

	  use_trash:           Whether files should be moved to the trash/recycle bin
	                       after deletion. Possible values: 0 or 1. Default: 1.

	  include_directories: Whether to include the directories in the file buffer.
	                       Possible values: 0 or 1. Default: 1.

	  include_header:      Whether to show the header in the file buffer. Possible
	                       values: 0 or 1. Default: 1.

	Examples:

	  Set Sublime as the default text editor:
	  % massren --config editor "subl -n -w"

	  Don't move files to trash:
	  % massren --config use_trash 0

## TODO

- Move files to trash in bulk instead of one by one.
- Detect default text editor on Windows.
- Disambiguate filenames when processing two or more folders that contain the same filenames.
- Other [various issues](https://github.com/laurent22/massren/issues).

## Building from source

- Go 1.2+ is required

		go get github.com/laurent22/massren
		go build
		
- If it doesn't build on OSX, try with:

		go get -x -ldflags -linkmode=external github.com/laurent22/massren

More info in [this issue](https://github.com/laurent22/massren/issues/7).

## License

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Laurent Cozic

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

I guess  and Homebrew are the only right ways to install this

README.md, after:

## Massren [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/laurent22/massren.png)](https://travis-ci.org/laurent22/massren)

Massren is a command line tool that can be used to rename multiple files using your own text editor. Multiple-rename tools are usually difficult to use from the command line since any regular expression needs to be escaped, and each tool uses its own syntax and flavor of regex. The advantage of massren is that you are using the text editor you use every day, and so can use all its features.

The tool works by creating a file that contains the filenames of the target directory, and opening this file in the text editor. You can then modify the filenames there directly. Once done, save the text file and the files will be renamed. Lines that are not changed will simply be ignored.

![Massren usage animation](https://raw.github.com/laurent22/massren/animation/animation.gif "Massren usage animation")

## Features

- Rename multiple files using your own text editor. It should work with any text editor, including vim, emacs, Sublime Text or notepad.

- Undo - any rename operation can be undone.

- Move files to sub-directories. By adding a directory before a filename, the file is going to be moved to this directory.

- Dry run mode - test the results of a rename operation without actually renaming any file.

- Cross-platform - Windows, OSX and Linux are supported.

- Safety checks - since this is a multiple rename tool, various checks are in place to ensure that nothing gets accidentally renamed. For example, the program will check that the files are not being changed by something else while the list of filenames is being edited. If the number of files before and after saving the file is different, the operation will also be cancelled.

## Installation

The latest executables for each platform are available from the [release page](https://github.com/laurent22/massren/releases). An installation script is also available:

### OSX

#### Homebrew

	brew tap laurent22/massren
	brew install massren

Alternatively, the Linux method described below would work as well.
	
If the installation fails, please follow the [instructions below](#building-from-source).

### Linux

- [Install Go](https://golang.org/doc/install#tarball)
- Run `go get -u github.com/laurent22/massren`
- Run `go install github.com/laurent22/massren`

By default, the tool will be installed in `$GOPATH/bin/massren`. From there, you can either symlink it to `/bin` or add `$GOPATH/bin` to your `PATH` variable with `export PATH=$PATH:$GOPATH/bin`.

### Windows

The executable can be downloaded from https://github.com/laurent22/massren/releases

## Usage and examples

	Usage:
	  massren [OPTIONS]

	Application Options:
	  -n, --dry-run  Don't rename anything but show the operation that would have
	                 been performed.
	  -v, --verbose  Enable verbose output.
	  -c, --config   Set or list configuration values. For more info, type:
	                 massren --config --help
	  -u, --undo     Undo a rename operation. Currently delete operations cannot be
	                 undone (though files can be recovered from the trash in OSX
	                 and Windows). eg. massren --undo [path]
	  -V, --version  Displays version information.

	Help Options:
	  -h, --help     Show this help message

	Examples:

	  Process all the files in the current directory:
	  % massren

	  Process all the JPEGs in the specified directory:
	  % massren /path/to/photos/*.jpg

	  Undo the changes done by the previous operation:
	  % massren --undo /path/to/photos/*.jpg

	  Set VIM as the default text editor:
	  % massren --config editor vim

	  List config values:
	  % massren --config

## Configuration

Type `massren --help --config` (or `massren -ch`) to view the possible configuration values and defaults:

	Config commands:

	  Set a value:
	  % massren --config <name> <value>

	  List all the values:
	  % massren --config

	  Delete a value:
	  % massren --config <name>

	Possible key/values:

	  editor:              The editor to use when editing the list of files.
	                       Default: auto-detected.

	  use_trash:           Whether files should be moved to the trash/recycle bin
	                       after deletion. Possible values: 0 or 1. Default: 1.

	  include_directories: Whether to include the directories in the file buffer.
	                       Possible values: 0 or 1. Default: 1.

	  include_header:      Whether to show the header in the file buffer. Possible
	                       values: 0 or 1. Default: 1.

	Examples:

	  Set Sublime as the default text editor:
	  % massren --config editor "subl -n -w"

	  Don't move files to trash:
	  % massren --config use_trash 0

## TODO

- Move files to trash in bulk instead of one by one.
- Detect default text editor on Windows.
- Disambiguate filenames when processing two or more folders that contain the same filenames.
- Other [various issues](https://github.com/laurent22/massren/issues).

## Building from source

- Go 1.3+ is required

		go get github.com/laurent22/massren
		go build
		
- If it doesn't build on OSX, try with:

		go get -x -ldflags -linkmode=external github.com/laurent22/massren

More info in [this issue](https://github.com/laurent22/massren/issues/7).

## License

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2013-2016 Laurent Cozic

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.
